
Task 1 - Git Fundamentals

Theoretical Part:

1. Explain the purpose of the following Git commands:
a. git status
It shows the current status of the working directory and staging area.

b. git init
It initializes a new Git repository in the current directory.

c. git commit
It saves the staged changes to the local repository with a message.

d. git push
It uploads local commits to a remote repository.

2. Ahmed claims that there is no need for the git add command…
I disagree with Ahmed. The `git add` command is necessary to select which changes to include in the next commit. Without it, you can't control what is staged or committed.

3. Answer the following questions about code hosting providers:
a. List two popular code hosting platforms besides GitHub.
GitLab, Bitbucket

b. What key features do code hosting providers offer to enhance version control?
- Version control
- Collaboration tools (issues, pull requests)
- Access control
- Continuous integration and deployment (CI/CD)

c. True or False: A team can collaborate on a software project without relying on popular code hosting providers.
True – Teams can set up their own Git server locally for collaboration.

d. What does the -u flag in the git push -u origin main command signify?
It sets the upstream tracking for the main branch so that future git push and git pull commands can be used without specifying the remote or branch.

Practical Part:

Explain the steps involved and provide the specific commands you would use for this process.

1. Generate SSH key:
ssh-keygen -t ed25519 -C "your_email@example.com"

2. Add the SSH key to the ssh-agent:
eval "$(ssh-agent -s)"
ssh-add ~/.ssh/id_ed25519

3. Copy the SSH key and add it to your GitHub account:
cat ~/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub

4. Create a local repository:
git init

5. Add files and commit:
git add .
git commit -m "Initial commit"

6. Add the remote repository using SSH:
git remote add origin git@github.com:username/repository.git

7. Push the code:
git push -u origin main
